README.md, before:

# LLM Cybersecurity Council

An AI-powered cybersecurity analysis platform combining:
- **AG2 (AutoGen)** multi-agent collaboration system
- **Machine Learning** models for threat detection
- **MCP (Model Context Protocol)** tools for LLM integration

## 🎯 Overview

The Cyber Council is a **multi-agent AI system** where specialized security experts collaborate to analyze incidents:

### 🤖 AI Agents
- **Incident Commander** - Orchestrates the team
- **Travel Detective** - Detects impossible travel patterns
- **Threat Intel Specialist** - Queries VirusTotal and AbuseIPDB
- **Alert Triager** - Analyzes security alerts
- **Threat Analyst** - Provides overall threat assessment

### 🔧 Capabilities
- **Impossible Travel Detection**: ML-powered detection of physically impossible login patterns
- **Threat Intelligence**: Real-time checks against VirusTotal and AbuseIPDB
- **Security Alert Analysis**: Intelligent triage for 6 alert types
- **Multi-Indicator Assessment**: Aggregate analysis of multiple security indicators
- **Multi-LLM Support**: Works with OpenAI, Google Gemini, and local Ollama models

## 📁 Project Structure

```
llm-council/
├── council/                           # 🤖 AG2 Multi-Agent System
│   ├── orchestrator.py                # Council coordinator
│   ├── agents.py                      # Specialized security agents
│   ├── mcp_adapter.py                 # MCP tool adapter for AG2
│   ├── llm_config.py                  # Multi-LLM configuration
│   ├── cli.py                         # Command-line interface
│   ├── quickstart.py                  # Example scenarios
│   └── README.md                      # Council documentation
│
├── mcp/                               # 🔌 Model Context Protocol Server
│   ├── server.py                      # Main MCP server
│   ├── functions/                     # Security analysis tools
│   │   ├── impossible_travel.py       # ML-powered travel detection
│   │   ├── alert_analyzer.py          # Alert analysis engine
│   │   ├── virustotal_check.py        # VirusTotal integration
│   │   └── abuseipdb_check.py         # AbuseIPDB integration
│   └── README.md                      # MCP server documentation
│
├── models/                            # 🧠 Machine Learning Models
│   └── impossible-travel-detector/    
│       ├── src/                       # Model training and prediction
│       ├── configs/                   # Model configuration
│       ├── data/                      # Training data
│       └── README.md                  # Model documentation
│
├── .env.example                       # Environment configuration template
└── README.md                          # This file
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Setup Environment

```powershell
# Install dependencies
python -m venv cyber-council

-- Activate the environment -- 
Linux: source cyber-council/bin/activate
Windows: cybber-council/Scripts/Activate

pip install -r mcp/requirements.txt
pip install -r council/requirements.txt

# Configure API keys
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env and add your API keys
```

### 2. Run the Cyber Council

**Interactive Mode:**
```powershell
python council/cli.py interactive
```

**Analyze an Incident:**
```powershell
python council/cli.py analyze "User logged in from US then China in 1 hour"
```

**Quick Checks:**
```powershell
# Check IP reputation
python council/cli.py check-ip 192.0.2.1

# Check file hash
python council/cli.py check-hash 275a021bbfb6489e54d471899f7db9d1663fc695ec2fe2a2c4538aabf651fd0f
```

### 3. Train the ML Model (Optional)

For improved impossible travel detection:

```powershell
cd models\impossible-travel-detector
pip install -r requirements.txt
python src\train.py --config configs\config.yaml
```

### 4. Setup MCP Server (Optional)

For direct LLM integration (Claude Desktop, etc.):

```powershell
cd mcp
pip install -r requirements.txt
python setup.py
```

### 3. Test the Functions

```powershell
python test_server.py
```

## 🛠️ Features

### Impossible Travel Detection

Detects when users log in from locations that are physically impossible to reach in the given timeframe.

**Example:**
- Previous login: Tokyo at 2:00 PM
- Current login: New York at 4:00 PM (2 hours later)
- **Result**: IMPOSSIBLE_TRAVEL - Would require 5,425 km/h (faster than any airplane)

### Security Alert Analysis

Analyzes security alerts and provides:
- Threat level assessment (Critical/High/Medium/Low)
- Risk scoring (0-100)
- Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
- Recommended actions
- Confidence levels

**Supported Alert Types:**
- Authentication anomalies
- Malware detections
- Network intrusions
- Data exfiltration
- Privilege escalation
- Suspicious processes

### Threat Level Assessment

Combines multiple security indicators to provide comprehensive threat assessment:
- Aggregates indicators by severity
- Calculates overall risk score
- Provides prioritized response recommendations
- Determines response urgency level

## 💡 Use Cases

### 1. Multi-Agent Incident Analysis

**Scenario**: Security incident with multiple indicators.

```powershell
python council/cli.py analyze "User alice@company.com logged in from US at 8am, then China at 9am. China IP (203.0.113.42) flagged on threat intel. She accessed financial database during China session."
```

**What happens:**
1. **Incident Commander** receives incident and delegates tasks
2. **Travel Detective** checks impossible travel pattern
3. **Threat Intel Specialist** queries VirusTotal and AbuseIPDB for the IP
4. **Alert Triager** assesses authentication anomaly
5. **Threat Analyst** aggregates all findings
6. **Commander** synthesizes comprehensive incident report

### 2. Quick Threat Intelligence Checks

**Check IP reputation:**
```powershell
python council/cli.py check-ip 192.0.2.1
```

**Check file hash:**
```powershell
python council/cli.py check-hash 275a021bbfb6489e54d471899f7db9d1663fc695ec2fe2a2c4538aabf651fd0f
```

**Check domain:**
```powershell
python council/cli.py check-domain evil.com
```

### 3. Interactive Security Analysis

Start interactive mode for ongoing analysis:

```powershell
python council/cli.py interactive
```

Then describe incidents naturally:
```
🚨 Describe the incident:
> Multiple failed login attempts from 10 different IPs in China, 
  then successful login and privileged access granted
```

The council will analyze and provide comprehensive assessment.

### 4. Direct MCP Integration

Use MCP tools with Claude Desktop or other MCP clients for natural language security analysis.

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Multi-Agent System (AG2)

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     Incident Commander                       │
│              (Orchestrates specialist agents)                │
└───────┬──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
        │
        │ Delegates tasks
        │
    ┌───┴────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
    │                                                     │
    ▼                  ▼                  ▼              ▼
┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐
│  Travel  │    │  Threat  │    │  Alert   │    │  Threat  │
│Detective │    │Intel Spec│    │ Triager  │    │ Analyst  │
└────┬─────┘    └────┬─────┘    └────┬─────┘    └────┬─────┘
     │               │               │               │
     │ Uses MCP      │ Uses MCP      │ Uses MCP      │ Uses MCP
     │ Tools         │ Tools         │ Tools         │ Tools
     │               │               │               │
     └───────────────┴───────────────┴───────────────┘
                          │
                          ▼
            ┌─────────────────────────┐
            │     MCP Tool Adapter    │
            └────────────┬────────────┘
                         │
        ┌────────────────┼────────────────┐
        │                │                │
        ▼                ▼                ▼
┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐
│impossible_   │  │virustotal_   │  │abuseipdb_    │
│travel.py     │  │check.py      │  │check.py      │
│              │  │              │  │              │
│• ML model    │  │• IP check    │  │• IP reputation│
│• Geo calc    │  │• Hash check  │  │• Abuse score │
└──────────────┘  └──────────────┘  └──────────────┘
```

### LLM Integration

Supports multiple LLM providers:
- **OpenAI GPT-4** - Best performance (recommended)
- **Google Gemini** - Good alternative
- **Ollama** - Local LLMs for privacy (llama2, mistral, etc.)

Each agent can use a different LLM for diverse perspectives.

## 📊 Models

### Impossible Travel Detector

A neural network trained to detect impossible travel patterns based on:
- Geographic distance between login locations
- Time difference between logins
- Required travel speed
- Historical user behavior patterns
- Country and city information

**Performance** (on test set):
- Accuracy: ~95%
- Precision: ~92%
- Recall: ~90%
- F1-Score: ~91%

See `models/impossible-travel-detector/README.md` for details.

## 🧪 Testing

### Run Complete Test Suite

```powershell
python test_council.py
```

### Test Council Examples

```powershell
python council/quickstart.py
```

### Test Individual Components

**MCP Tools:**
```powershell
cd mcp
python examples.py
```

**ML Model:**
```powershell
cd models\impossible-travel-detector
python src\predict.py --username user001 --country "United States" --prev_country Japan --time_diff_hours 2
```

## 📚 Documentation

- **[MCP Server Documentation](mcp/README.md)** - Detailed MCP server guide
- **[Quick Start Guide](mcp/QUICKSTART.md)** - 5-minute setup guide
- **[Model Documentation](models/impossible-travel-detector/README.md)** - ML model details

## 🔐 Security Considerations

- All processing is done locally - no external API calls
- No sensitive data is transmitted outside your environment
- MCP server runs as a local process only
- Ensure proper file permissions on config files
- Review all recommendations before taking action

## 🛣️ Roadmap

- [ ] Add more ML models (phishing detection, anomaly detection)
- [ ] Integration with real threat intelligence feeds
- [ ] Support for more MCP clients
- [ ] Web dashboard for visualizations
- [ ] Real-time alert streaming
- [ ] Historical pattern analysis
- [ ] Automated response actions
- [ ] SIEM integration

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built with [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)
- Uses TensorFlow/Keras for ML models
- Inspired by real-world SOC analyst workflows

## 📞 Support

For questions or issues:
- Open an issue on GitHub
- Check the documentation in each component's README
- Review the examples for usage patterns

---

**Made with ❤️ for cybersecurity professionals and AI enthusiasts**

Commit message:

Update README with new AI Agent and security notes
Added IoC Extractor Specialist to AI Agents section and updated security considerations for local LLM usage. Removed MCP Tools section and documentation links.

README.md, after:

# LLM Cybersecurity Council

An AI-powered cybersecurity analysis platform combining:
- **AG2 (AutoGen)** multi-agent collaboration system
- **Machine Learning** models for threat detection
- **MCP (Model Context Protocol)** tools for LLM integration

## 🎯 Overview

The Cyber Council is a **multi-agent AI system** where specialized security experts collaborate to analyze incidents:

### 🤖 AI Agents
- **Incident Commander** - Orchestrates the team
- **Travel Detective** - Detects impossible travel patterns
- **Threat Intel Specialist** - Queries VirusTotal and AbuseIPDB
- **IoC Extractor Specialist** - Extracts Indicators of Compromise 
- **Alert Triager** - Analyzes security alerts
- **Threat Analyst** - Provides overall threat assessment

### 🔧 Capabilities
- **Impossible Travel Detection**: ML-powered detection of physically impossible login patterns
- **Threat Intelligence**: Real-time checks against VirusTotal and AbuseIPDB
- **Security Alert Analysis**: Intelligent triage for 6 alert types
- **Multi-Indicator Assessment**: Aggregate analysis of multiple security indicators
- **Multi-LLM Support**: Works with OpenAI, Google Gemini, and local Ollama models

## 📁 Project Structure

```
llm-council/
├── council/                           # 🤖 AG2 Multi-Agent System
│   ├── orchestrator.py                # Council coordinator
│   ├── agents.py                      # Specialized security agents
│   ├── mcp_adapter.py                 # MCP tool adapter for AG2
│   ├── llm_config.py                  # Multi-LLM configuration
│   ├── cli.py                         # Command-line interface
│   ├── quickstart.py                  # Example scenarios
│   └── README.md                      # Council documentation
│
├── mcp/                               # 🔌 Model Context Protocol Server
│   ├── server.py                      # Main MCP server
│   ├── functions/                     # Security analysis tools
│   │   ├── impossible_travel.py       # ML-powered travel detection
│   │   ├── alert_analyzer.py          # Alert analysis engine
│   │   ├── virustotal_check.py        # VirusTotal integration
│   │   └── abuseipdb_check.py         # AbuseIPDB integration
│   └── README.md                      # MCP server documentation
│
├── models/                            # 🧠 Machine Learning Models
│   └── impossible-travel-detector/    
│       ├── src/                       # Model training and prediction
│       ├── configs/                   # Model configuration
│       ├── data/                      # Training data
│       └── README.md                  # Model documentation
│
├── .env.example                       # Environment configuration template
└── README.md                          # This file
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Setup Environment

```powershell
# Install dependencies
python -m venv cyber-council

-- Activate the environment -- 
Linux: source cyber-council/bin/activate
Windows: cybber-council/Scripts/Activate

pip install -r mcp/requirements.txt
pip install -r council/requirements.txt

# Configure API keys
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env and add your API keys
```

### 2. Run the Cyber Council

**Interactive Mode:**
```powershell
python council/cli.py interactive
```

**Analyze an Incident:**
```powershell
python council/cli.py analyze "User logged in from US then China in 1 hour"
```

**Quick Checks:**
```powershell
# Check IP reputation
python council/cli.py check-ip 192.0.2.1

# Check file hash
python council/cli.py check-hash 275a021bbfb6489e54d471899f7db9d1663fc695ec2fe2a2c4538aabf651fd0f
```

### 3. Train the ML Model (Optional)

For improved impossible travel detection:

```powershell
cd models\impossible-travel-detector
pip install -r requirements.txt
python src\train.py --config configs\config.yaml
```

### 4. Setup MCP Server (Optional)

For direct LLM integration (Claude Desktop, etc.):

```powershell
cd mcp
pip install -r requirements.txt
python setup.py
```

### 3. Test the Functions

```powershell
python test_server.py
```

## 🛠️ Features

### Impossible Travel Detection

Detects when users log in from locations that are physically impossible to reach in the given timeframe.

**Example:**
- Previous login: Tokyo at 2:00 PM
- Current login: New York at 4:00 PM (2 hours later)
- **Result**: IMPOSSIBLE_TRAVEL - Would require 5,425 km/h (faster than any airplane)

### Security Alert Analysis

Analyzes security alerts and provides:
- Threat level assessment (Critical/High/Medium/Low)
- Risk scoring (0-100)
- Indicators of Compromise (IOCs)
- Recommended actions
- Confidence levels

**Supported Alert Types:**
- Authentication anomalies
- Malware detections
- Network intrusions
- Data exfiltration
- Privilege escalation
- Suspicious processes

### Threat Level Assessment

Combines multiple security indicators to provide comprehensive threat assessment:
- Aggregates indicators by severity
- Calculates overall risk score
- Provides prioritized response recommendations
- Determines response urgency level

## 💡 Use Cases

### 1. Multi-Agent Incident Analysis

**Scenario**: Security incident with multiple indicators.

```powershell
python council/cli.py analyze "User alice@company.com logged in from US at 8am, then China at 9am. China IP (203.0.113.42) flagged on threat intel. She accessed financial database during China session."
```

**What happens:**
1. **Incident Commander** receives incident and delegates tasks
2. **Travel Detective** checks impossible travel pattern
3. **Threat Intel Specialist** queries VirusTotal and AbuseIPDB for the IP
4. **Alert Triager** assesses authentication anomaly
5. **Threat Analyst** aggregates all findings
6. **Commander** synthesizes comprehensive incident report

### 2. Quick Threat Intelligence Checks

**Check IP reputation:**
```powershell
python council/cli.py check-ip 192.0.2.1
```

**Check file hash:**
```powershell
python council/cli.py check-hash 275a021bbfb6489e54d471899f7db9d1663fc695ec2fe2a2c4538aabf651fd0f
```

**Check domain:**
```powershell
python council/cli.py check-domain evil.com
```

### 3. Interactive Security Analysis

Start interactive mode for ongoing analysis:

```powershell
python council/cli.py interactive
```

Then describe incidents naturally:
```
🚨 Describe the incident:
> Multiple failed login attempts from 10 different IPs in China, 
  then successful login and privileged access granted
```

The council will analyze and provide comprehensive assessment.

### 4. Direct MCP Integration

Use MCP tools with Claude Desktop or other MCP clients for natural language security analysis.

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Multi-Agent System (AG2)

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     Incident Commander                       │
│              (Orchestrates specialist agents)                │
└───────┬──────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
        │
        │ Delegates tasks
        │
    ┌───┴────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
    │                                                     │
    ▼                  ▼                  ▼              ▼
┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐    ┌──────────┐
│  Travel  │    │  Threat  │    │  Alert   │    │  Threat  │
│Detective │    │Intel Spec│    │ Triager  │    │ Analyst  │
└────┬─────┘    └────┬─────┘    └────┬─────┘    └────┬─────┘
     │               │               │               │
     │ Uses MCP      │ Uses MCP      │ Uses MCP      │ Uses MCP
     │ Tools         │ Tools         │ Tools         │ Tools
     │               │               │               │
     └───────────────┴───────────────┴───────────────┘
                          │
                          ▼
            ┌─────────────────────────┐
            │     MCP Tool Adapter    │
            └────────────┬────────────┘
                         │
        ┌────────────────┼────────────────┐
        │                │                │
        ▼                ▼                ▼
┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐
│impossible_   │  │virustotal_   │  │abuseipdb_    │
│travel.py     │  │check.py      │  │check.py      │
│              │  │              │  │              │
│• ML model    │  │• IP check    │  │• IP reputation│
│• Geo calc    │  │• Hash check  │  │• Abuse score │
└──────────────┘  └──────────────┘  └──────────────┘
```

### LLM Integration

Supports multiple LLM providers:
- **OpenAI GPT-4** - Best performance (recommended)
- **Google Gemini** - Good alternative
- **Ollama** - Local LLMs for privacy (llama2, mistral, etc.)

Each agent can use a different LLM for diverse perspectives.

## 📊 Models

### Impossible Travel Detector

A neural network trained to detect impossible travel patterns based on:
- Geographic distance between login locations
- Time difference between logins
- Required travel speed
- Historical user behavior patterns
- Country and city information

**Performance** (on test set):
- Accuracy: ~95%
- Precision: ~92%
- Recall: ~90%
- F1-Score: ~91%

See `models/impossible-travel-detector/README.md` for details.

## 🧪 Testing

### Run Complete Test Suite

```powershell
python test_council.py
```

### Test Council Examples

```powershell
python council/quickstart.py
```

### Test Individual Components

**ML Model:**
```powershell
cd models\impossible-travel-detector
python src\predict.py --username user001 --country "United States" --prev_country Japan --time_diff_hours 2
```

## 🔐 Security Considerations

- When using a local LLM all processing is done locally - no external API calls
- When using OpenAI or Gemini be sure to check if your data will remain private or not
- No sensitive data is transmitted outside your environment
- MCP server runs as a local process only
- Ensure proper file permissions on config files
- Review all recommendations before taking action

## 🛣️ Roadmap

- [ ] Add more ML models (phishing detection, anomaly detection)
- [ ] Integration with real threat intelligence feeds
- [ ] Support for more MCP clients
- [ ] Web dashboard for visualizations
- [ ] Real-time alert streaming
- [ ] Historical pattern analysis
- [ ] Automated response actions
- [ ] SIEM integration

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Built with [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/)
- Uses TensorFlow/Keras for ML models
- Inspired by real-world SOC analyst workflows

## 📞 Support

For questions or issues:
- Open an issue on GitHub

---

**Made with ❤️ for cybersecurity professionals and AI enthusiasts**
